[Music]
elephants weighing seven tonnes and
measuring more than three meters at the
shoulder the African elephant is the
world's largest land mammal but they are
not just physically giant they have the
biggest brains of any land mammals -
[Music]
three times bigger than ours and
weighing a whopping five kilograms
they're made up of around 300 billion
neurons that's three times more than
humans do these huge brains translate
into a heightened intelligence what
emotions - elephants feel and why is the
herd so important for their survival
we're going to explore the amazing
behavior of these majestic animals and
uncover why elephants pay more than a
passing resemblance to ourselves
[Music]
elephants are one of the most
intelligent animals on earth they're one
of the few species who can recognize
their own reflection
meaning they might even have a similar
sense of self to us elephants have shown
impressive emotional intelligence - they
perform consolation behavior reassuring
others in distress through soothing
vocalizations and comforting gestures
with their trunks they also help each
other in times of need and even appear
to mourn the death of friends and family
just like humans these behaviors can be
seen in close-knit elephant families
usually made up of the dominant female
or matriarch her daughters and her
calves showing altruism or selflessness
the family will all pitch in to help
really young stirs and protect them in
times of danger when threatened to keep
the more vulnerable babies in the center
of the herd forming a protective barrier
against all predators somewhat
surprisingly elephants will often
babysit for other mothers in the herd in
fact it's an extremely important aspect
of elephant life it builds lifelong
bonds and helps the herd to thrive
the mothers have even been found to
adopt orphan babies letting them suckle
and protecting them after their mothers
have died and some herds have adopted
outsiders too like a human family might
do like humans young elephants spend
many years learning from their elders
they won't reach independence until
they're 10 years of age and there's a
lot to learn
elephants are masters of their
environment they can hear a rainstorm a
hundred and fifty miles away picking up
on the ultra-low frequencies they've
also been seen to self-medicate
for example chewing the leaves of
medicinal trees to induce labor these
are skills a baby must learn and in turn
pass on to the next generation in fact
they're saying an elephant never forgets
is not so far from the truth
elephant matriarchs have been known to
remember watering holes used in droughts
over 30 years ago this vital knowledge
can sometimes be a matter of life or
death to the herd and it's one of the
keys to their survival it's safe to say
that the matriarch plays a vital role in
the herd so imagine the impact when they
are poached for their ivory almost 1/3
of Africa's elephants have been killed
in the past ten years alone that's 100
elephants killed each day but this
pressure is changing elephants to
poaching those with the largest tusks
over hundreds of years means that today
tusks are shrinking scientists have
noticed they are actually evolving to
have smaller tusks in fact some are born
without them altogether let's call for
change and hope that we live to see a
future free from poaching
[Music]